Added tutorial for Automatic Inertia Calculator (#2119)
gazebosim/gz-sim: tutorials/auto_inertia_calculation.md

        </geometry>
      </collision>
      <visual name="visual">
        <geometry>
          <cylinder>
            <radius>1</radius>
            <length>2</length>
          </cylinder>
        </geometry>
        <material>
          <diffuse>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</diffuse>
          <ambient>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</ambient>
          <specular>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</specular>
        </material>
      </visual>
    </link>
  </model>
```

If you use the above snippet in an empty world and launch it with `gz-sim`, here's how it would look:

![Cylinder](files/auto_inertia/cylinder_inertia_demo.gif)

## Links with Multiple Collisions & the Effect of Density

To understand the inertia calculation in links with multiple collisions and the effect of setting different density values, you can launch the `auto_inertia_pendulum.sdf` example world using:

```bash
gz sim auto_inertia_pendulum.sdf
```

After the gz-sim window opens up, you can right click on both the models and enable the centre of mass visualization by selecting the `View > Center of Mass` option from the menu. Once you play the simulation it should look this:

![Pendulum](files/auto_inertia/auto_inertia_pendulum.gif)

> This example world has two structurally indentical models. The pendulum link of both the models contain 3 cylindrical collision geometries: One on the top which forms the joint, One in longer cylinder in middle and One at the end which forms the bob of cylinder. Even, though they are indentical, the center of mass for both are different as they use different density values for the different cylinder collisions. One one hand, the upper joint collision of the pendulum on the left has the highest density which causes the center of mass to shift closer to the axis while on the other hand, the bob collision of the pendulum on the right has the highest density which causes the center of mass to shift towards the end of the pendulum.

Reviewer: use shortter lines ( 80 ~ 100 characters)

Author: Updated in [35df259](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/35df259fd9c212f2605cabf03ba15dd07cc5ea49)

This difference in mass distribution about the axis of rotation results in difference in the moment of inertia of the 2 setups and hence different angular velocities.

## Mesh Inertia Calculation with Rolling Shapes Demo

Let's try another example world, `auto_inertia_rolling_shapes.sdf`. This can be launched with `gz sim` using the following command:

> ```xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash

```

Author: Corrected in [35df259](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/35df259fd9c212f2605cabf03ba15dd07cc5ea49)

\page auto_inertia_calculation Automatic Inertia Calculation for Links

## Automatic Inertia Calculation for SDFormat Links

This feature enables automatic calculation for the Moments of Inertia, Mass, and
Inertial Pose (Center of Mass pose) of a link described using SDFormat. The following
geometry types are currently supported for this feature:
 * Box
 * Capsule
 * Cylinder
 * Ellipsoid
 * Sphere
 * Mesh

Using this feature, a user can easily set up an accurate simulation with physically
plausible inertial values for a link. This also removes the dependency on manual calculations
or 3rd-party mesh processing software which can help lower the barrier of entry for beginners.

This tutorial will focus on how this feature can be enabled and how the
inertia values for a link can be configured. Some limitations and recommendations
would also be discussed along the way that would allow users to more mindfully utilize this feature.

## Basic Overview

This feature introduced a new `auto` attribute for the `<inertial>` tag which can be set

> to true or false (The value is false by default) to enable or disable the automatic
> calculations respectively:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to enable or disable the automatic calculations. It'll be set to `false` by default.

```

Author: Corrected in [2b8be4c](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/2b8be4cfc423ee3b6ec37763861572a4362ec10b)

```xml
<inertial auto="true" />
```

In case, `auto` is set to true, the constituent **collision geometries** of the link are

> considered for the calculations. A newly introduced `<density>` tag can be used to specify

Reviewer 2: Try to avoid tense to make documentation age well.
```suggestion
considered for the calculations. The `<density>` tag can be used to specify

```

Author: Corrected in [2b8be4c](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/2b8be4cfc423ee3b6ec37763861572a4362ec10b)

        <geometry>
          <cylinder>
            <radius>1</radius>
            <length>2</length>
          </cylinder>
        </geometry>
        <material>
          <diffuse>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</diffuse>
          <ambient>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</ambient>
          <specular>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</specular>
        </material>
      </visual>
    </link>
  </model>
```

If you use the above snippet in an empty world and launch it with `gz-sim`, here's
how it would look:

![Cylinder](files/auto_inertia/cylinder_inertia_demo.gif)

## Links with Multiple Collisions & the Effect of Density

To understand the inertia calculation in links with multiple collisions and the
effect of setting different density values, you can launch the `auto_inertia_pendulum.sdf`
example world using:

```bash
gz sim auto_inertia_pendulum.sdf
```

After the gz-sim window opens up, you can right click on both the models and enable
the centre of mass visualization by selecting the `View > Center of Mass` option from
the menu. Once you play the simulation it should look this:

![Pendulum](files/auto_inertia/auto_inertia_pendulum.gif)

This example world has two structurally indentical models. The pendulum link of both

> the models contain 3 cylindrical collision geometries: One on the top which forms the
> joint, One in longer cylinder in middle and One at the end which forms the bob of
> cylinder. Even, though they are indentical, the center of mass for both are different

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the models contain 3 cylindrical collision geometries: 
- One on the top which forms the joint
- A longer cylinder in middle 
- And at the end which forms the bob of
cylinder.
Even, though they are indentical, the center of mass for both are different

```

Author: Corrected in [2b8be4c](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/2b8be4cfc423ee3b6ec37763861572a4362ec10b)

> as they use different density values for the different cylinder collisions. One one
> hand, the upper joint collision of the pendulum on the left has the highest density
> which causes the center of mass to shift closer to the axis while on the other hand,
> the bob collision of the pendulum on the right has the highest density which causes
> the center of mass to shift towards the end of the pendulum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as they use different density values for the different cylinder collisions. On one
hand, the upper joint collision of the pendulum on the left has the highest density
which causes the center of mass to shift closer to the axis. While on the other hand,
the bob collision of the pendulum on the right has the highest density which causes
the center of mass to shift towards the end of the pendulum.

```

Author: Corrected in [2b8be4c](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/2b8be4cfc423ee3b6ec37763861572a4362ec10b)

This difference in mass distribution about the axis of rotation results in difference
in the moment of inertia of the 2 setups and hence different angular velocities.

## Mesh Inertia Calculation with Rolling Shapes Demo

Let's try another example world, `auto_inertia_rolling_shapes.sdf`. This can be
launched with `gz sim` using the following command:

```bash
gz sim auto_inertia_rolling_shapes.sdf
```

Once you launch and play the simulation, it should look something like this:

![Rolling](files/auto_inertia/rolling_inertia_demo.gif)

> Here the right most shapes is a hollow cylinder (yellow). This model is load from
> fuel and is made using a collada mesh of a hollow cylinder. Apart from this, we can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here the right most shape is a hollow cylinder (yellow). This model is loaded from
[Gazebo Fuel](https://app.gazebosim.org/dashboard) and is made using a Collada mesh of a hollow cylinder. Apart from this, we can

```

Author: Added a link to the model page in Gazebo Fuel in [2b8be4c](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/2b8be4cfc423ee3b6ec37763861572a4362ec10b)

see there is a solid cylinder, a solid sphere and a solid capsule. All of these are
made using the `<geometry>` tag and have automatic inertia calculations enabled.
Here, the moments of inertia for the hollow cylinder (which is convex mesh shape) is
calculated and from the simulation we can see that it reaches the bottom of the
incline last. This is physically accurate as the mass distribution for the hollow

> cylinder is concetrated at a distance from the axis of rotation (which passes through

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cylinder is concentrated at a distance from the axis of rotation (which passes through

```

Author: Corrected in [2b8be4c](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/2b8be4cfc423ee3b6ec37763861572a4362ec10b)

the center of mass in this case).

> ## Key Points Regarding Mesh Inertia Calculator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Key Points on Mesh Inertia Calculator

```

Author: Corrected in [2b8be4c](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/2b8be4cfc423ee3b6ec37763861572a4362ec10b)

## Basic Overview

This feature introduced a new `auto` attribute for the `<inertial>` tag which can be set
 to enable or disable the automatic calculations. It'll be set to false by default.

```xml
<inertial auto="true" />
```

In case, `auto` is set to true, the constituent **collision geometries** of the link are
considered for the calculations. The `<density>` tag can be used to specify
the mass density value of the collision in kg/m^3. The density of water (1000 kg/m^3) is
utilized as the default value:

```xml
<collision name="collision">
  <density>2710.0</density>
  <geometry>
    <box>
      <size>1 1 1</size>
    </box>
  </geometry>
</collision>
```

In case of multiple collision geometries in a link, a user is free to provide different
density values for each and the inertia values from each would be aggregated to calculate
the final inertia of the link. However, if there are no collisions present,
an `ELEMENT_MISSING` error would be thrown.

It is **important** to note here that if `auto` is set to `true` and the user has
still provided values through the `<mass>`, `<pose>` and `<inertia>` tags, they
would be **overwritten** by the automatically computed values.

> >**Note:** Use SDF Spec version 1.11 or greater to utilize the new tags and attributes
> of this feature.

Reviewer 3: This is needed for proper formatting:

```suggestion
> **Note:** Use SDF Spec version 1.11 or greater to utilize the new tags and attributes
> of this feature.

```

btw, you can test this locally by running `make doc` in gz-sim build directory and opening `doxygen/index.html`.

Author: Thank you for the note. I have updated the formatting in [6217798](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/6217798a922afdfbbd7c690803b1774c041502b7)

        <material>
          <diffuse>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</diffuse>
          <ambient>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</ambient>
          <specular>1.0 1.0 0.0 1.0</specular>
        </material>
      </visual>
    </link>
  </model>
```

If you use the above snippet in an empty world and launch it with `gz-sim`, here's
how it would look:

![Cylinder](files/auto_inertia/cylinder_inertia_demo.gif)

## Links with Multiple Collisions & the Effect of Density

To understand the inertia calculation in links with multiple collisions and the
effect of setting different density values, you can launch the `auto_inertia_pendulum.sdf`
example world using:

```bash
gz sim auto_inertia_pendulum.sdf
```

After the gz-sim window opens up, you can right click on both the models and enable
the centre of mass visualization by selecting the `View > Center of Mass` option from
the menu. Once you play the simulation it should look this:

![Pendulum](files/auto_inertia/auto_inertia_pendulum.gif)

This example world has two structurally indentical models. The pendulum link of both
the models contain 3 cylindrical collision geometries:
 - One on the top which forms the joint (pivot)
 - A longer cylinder in middle

>  - One at the end which forms the bob of
> cylinder.

Reviewer 3: nit: did you mean?

```suggestion
 - One at the end which forms the bob of the cylinder.

```

> Even, though they are indentical, the center of mass for both are different

Reviewer 3: Add an extra empty line to fix formatting, also fix typo in "indentical" -> "identical" (extra "n" after the first "i").

```suggestion

Even, though they are identical, the center of mass for both are different
```

Author: Corrected in [6217798](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/6217798a922afdfbbd7c690803b1774c041502b7)

> as they use different density values for the different cylinder collisions. One one

Reviewer 3: nit: "One one" repetition.

Author: Corrected in [6217798](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/6217798a922afdfbbd7c690803b1774c041502b7)

hand, the upper joint collision of the pendulum on the left has the highest density
which causes the center of mass to shift closer to the axis. While on the other hand,
the bob collision of the pendulum on the right has the highest density which causes
the center of mass to shift towards the end of the pendulum.

> This difference in mass distribution about the axis of rotation results in difference

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This difference in mass distribution about the axis of rotation results in a difference

```

Author: Corrected in [6217798](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/6217798a922afdfbbd7c690803b1774c041502b7)

in the moment of inertia of the 2 setups and hence different angular velocities.

## Mesh Inertia Calculation with Rolling Shapes Demo

Let's try another example world, `auto_inertia_rolling_shapes.sdf`. This can be
launched with `gz sim` using the following command:

```bash
gz sim auto_inertia_rolling_shapes.sdf
```

Once you launch and play the simulation, it should look something like this:

![Rolling](files/auto_inertia/rolling_inertia_demo.gif)

Here the right most shapes is a hollow cylinder (yellow). This model is loaded from
[Gazebo Fuel](https://app.gazebosim.org/jasmeetsingh/fuel/models/Hollow%20Cylinder)

> and is made using a collada mesh of a hollow cylinder. Apart from this, we can

Reviewer 3: I don't believe this is a convex mesh as stated in this paragraph since a line crossing the hollow part of the cylinder will not be wholly contained in the cylinder. As an aside, were you able to compute the theoretical MOI of  this shape and compare it with the value calculated by the MOI calculator in gz-sim?

Author: Corrected the documentation in [6217798](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/6217798a922afdfbbd7c690803b1774c041502b7). Also I have compared the computed values with the theoretical values and they match!

see there is a solid cylinder, a solid sphere and a solid capsule. All of these are
made using the `<geometry>` tag and have automatic inertia calculations enabled.
Here, the moments of inertia for the hollow cylinder (which is convex mesh shape) is
calculated and from the simulation we can see that it reaches the bottom of the
incline last. This is physically accurate as the mass distribution for the hollow
cylinder is concentrated at a distance from the axis of rotation (which passes through
the center of mass in this case).

## Key Points on Mesh Inertia Calculator

> Here are some key points to consider when using automatic inertia calculation with 3D Meshes:

Reviewer 3: Have you had a chance to try it with meshes with submeshes ([example](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/blob/58a0c0b8a0375ae2918d9cc2525d755a21002e62/test/worlds/models/mesh_with_submeshes/model.sdf#L11))? If not, we should state that as a limitation.

 * Water-tight triangle meshes are required for the Mesh Inertia Calculator.
 * Currently, the mesh inertia is calculated about the mesh origin. Since the link
 inertia value needs to be about the Center of Mass, the mesh origin needs to be set

>  at the Center of Mass (Centroid).

Reviewer 3: Can you add that this will hopefully fixed in the future?

Author: Updated in [6217798](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/6217798a922afdfbbd7c690803b1774c041502b7)

 * Since the vertex data is used for inertia calculations, high vertex count would be
 needed for near ideal values. However, it is recommended to use basic shapes with the
 geometry tag (Box, Capsule, Cylinder, Ellipsoid and Sphere) as collision geometries to

>  reduce the load of calculations.

Reviewer 3: When you say the load of calculations, it makes it sound like using high vertex count meshes only affects the performance of the auto MOI calcuclator, when in fact it will affect the overall simulation performance or RTF.

Author: Updated the doc in [6217798](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/2119/commits/6217798a922afdfbbd7c690803b1774c041502b7)
